Agent-249: disconnected install via a mirror through Agent-based Installer (#53404)
openshift/openshift-docs: modules/agent-install-about-mirroring-for-disconnected-registry.adoc

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// * list of assemblies where this module is included
// * installing/installing_with_agent_based_installer/understanding-disconnected-installation-mirroring.adoc
// re-use of applicable content from disconnected install mirroring

:_content-type: CONCEPT
[id="agent-install-about-mirroring-for-disconnected-registry_{context}"]
= About mirroring the {product-title} image repository for a disconnected registry

To use mirror images for a disconnected installation through the Agent-based Installer, you must modify the `install-config.yaml` file.

You can mirror the release image by using the output of either the `oc adm release mirror` or `oc mirror` command.
This is dependent on which command you used to set up the mirror registry. The following example shows the output of the `oc adm release mirror` command.

[source,terminal]
----
$ oc adm release mirror
----

.Example output

[source,terminal]
----
To use the new mirrored repository to install, add the following
section to the install-config.yaml:

imageContentSources:

mirrors:

> virthost.ostest.test.metalkube.org:5000/localimages/local- release-image

Reviewer: ```suggestion
virthost.ostest.test.metalkube.org:5000/localimages/local-release-image
```

source: quay.io/openshift-release-dev/ocp-v4.0-art-dev
mirrors:

> virthost.ostest.test.metalkube.org:5000/localimages/local- release-image

Reviewer: ```suggestion
virthost.ostest.test.metalkube.org:5000/localimages/local-release-image
```

Author: Thanks Manoj, good catch!

source: registry.ci.openshift.org/ocp/release
----

> Use the output of the command to the `imageContentSources` field in the `install-config.yaml` file. Additionally add the certificate file used for the mirror registry to the `additionalTrustBundle` field.

Reviewer 2: Maybe "Use the output of the command to update the imageContentSources field..."

.Example

[source,yaml]
----
  additionalTrustBundle: |
    -----BEGIN CERTIFICATE-----
    ZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZ
    -----END CERTIFICATE-----
----

The value must be the contents of the certificate file that you used for your mirror registry. The certificate file can be an existing, trusted certificate authority, or the self-signed certificate that you generated for the mirror registry.

> If you are using the optional method of the ZTP manifests, there are two mirror configuration files: `registries.conf` and `ca- bundle.crt` file. The `registries.conf` file must be added to `mirror/ directory` path for the subcommand `openshift-install create image` to execute successfully. You can create the `registries.conf` file from the output of either the `oc adm release mirror` or `oc mirror` command. The format of the `/etc/containers/registries.conf` file has changed recently. It is now version 2 and in TOML format.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you are using the optional method of the ZTP manifests, there are two mirror configuration files: `registries.conf` and `ca- bundle.crt` file. These files must be added to the `mirror/ directory` path to add the mirror configuration in the agent image. You can create the `registries.conf` file from the output of either the `oc adm release mirror` or `oc mirror` command. The format of the `/etc/containers/registries.conf` file has changed recently. It is now version 2 and in TOML format.
```

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// * list of assemblies where this module is included
// * installing/installing_with_agent_based_installer/understanding-disconnected-installation-mirroring.adoc
// re-use of applicable content from disconnected install mirroring

:_content-type: CONCEPT
[id="agent-install-about-mirroring-for-disconnected-registry_{context}"]
= About mirroring the {product-title} image repository for a disconnected registry

> To use mirror images for a disconnected installation through the Agent-based Installer, you must modify the `install-config.yaml` file.

Reviewer 3: Up to you! 
```suggestion
To use mirror images for a disconnected installation with the Agent-based Installer, you must modify the `install-config.yaml` file.
```

> You can mirror the release image by using the output of either the `oc adm release mirror` or `oc mirror` command.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
You can mirror the release image by using the output of either the `oc adm release mirror` or the `oc mirror` command.
```

Author: Retaining as is , the is not required .

> This is dependent on which command you used to set up the mirror registry. The following example shows the output of the `oc adm release mirror` command.

Reviewer 4: If the `install-config.yaml` file needs to be modified differently based on the mirroring command used, will it be obvious to customers who use the `oc mirror` command what the necessary changes are?

Apologies if I am completely misunderstanding, but I wonder if changing what you have here to a simple procedure for `oc adm ...` and then making another module for `oc mirror` that highlights the differences would be simplier for customers to understand and for you to maintain.

> This is dependent on which command you used to set up the mirror registry. The following example shows the output of the `oc adm release mirror` command.

Author: In the pre-reqs it is mentioned that you can  use**oc adm** or **oc mirror plug in** , depends on what the user chooses. This refers to the output based on which command/process you select.

> This is dependent on which command you used to set up the mirror registry. The following example shows the output of the `oc adm release mirror` command.

Author: The preceding sentence before **this** >> You can mirror the release image by using the output of either the `oc adm release mirror` or `oc mirror` command.

[source,terminal]
----
$ oc adm release mirror
----

.Example output

[source,terminal]
----
To use the new mirrored repository to install, add the following
section to the install-config.yaml:

imageContentSources:

mirrors:
virthost.ostest.test.metalkube.org:5000/localimages/local-release-image
source: quay.io/openshift-release-dev/ocp-v4.0-art-dev
mirrors:
virthost.ostest.test.metalkube.org:5000/localimages/local-release-image
source: registry.ci.openshift.org/ocp/release
----

> Use the output of the command to update the `imageContentSources` field in the `install-config.yaml` file. Additionally add the certificate file used for the mirror registry to the `additionalTrustBundle` field.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Use the output of the command to update the `imageContentSources` field in the `install-config.yaml` file. Additionally, add the certificate file used for the mirror registry to the `additionalTrustBundle` field.
```

> .Example

Author: Addressed!

> 
> [source,terminal]
> ----
> $ oc adm release mirror
> ----
> 
> .Example output
> 
> [source,terminal]
> ----
> To use the new mirrored repository to install, add the following
> section to the install-config.yaml:
> 
> imageContentSources:
> 
> mirrors:
> virthost.ostest.test.metalkube.org:5000/localimages/local-release-image
> source: quay.io/openshift-release-dev/ocp-v4.0-art-dev
> mirrors:
> virthost.ostest.test.metalkube.org:5000/localimages/local-release-image
> source: registry.ci.openshift.org/ocp/release
> ----
> Use the output of the command to update the `imageContentSources` field in the `install-config.yaml` file. Additionally, add the certificate file used for the mirror registry to the `additionalTrustBundle` field.
> 
> .Example
> 
> [source,yaml]
> ----
>   additionalTrustBundle: |
>     -----BEGIN CERTIFICATE-----
>     ZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZ
>     -----END CERTIFICATE-----
> ----

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
. Run the following command to <get the the path to your mirrored repositories?>:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc adm release mirror
----
+
.Example output

[source,terminal]
----
To use the new mirrored repository to install, add the following
section to the install-config.yaml:

imageContentSources:

mirrors:
virthost.ostest.test.metalkube.org:5000/localimages/local-release-image
source: quay.io/openshift-release-dev/ocp-v4.0-art-dev
mirrors:
virthost.ostest.test.metalkube.org:5000/localimages/local-release-image
source: registry.ci.openshift.org/ocp/release
----

. Use the output of the command to update the `imageContentSources` field in the `install-config.yaml` file, as shown in the following example:
+
.Example `install-config.yaml` file
[source,yaml]
----
...
----

. Add the certificate file used for the mirror registry to the `additionalTrustBundle` field in your `instal-config.yaml` filel, as shown in the following example:

.Example `install-config.yaml` file

[source,yaml]
----
  additionalTrustBundle: |
    -----BEGIN CERTIFICATE-----
    ZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZ
    -----END CERTIFICATE-----
----
```
To me, this content reads easier as procedure. What you have written is strong. I think the information architecture needs tweaking.

Author: these are not _complete/sequential_ steps hence concept module. And this content has been carefully analysed for a ceoncept, procedure or a ref module. I would prefer to retain as.

> ----

Author: It is quite clear imo and would prefer to retain as. We are using the above format e.g https://docs.openshift.com/container-platform/4.11/installing/installing_gcp/installing-restricted-networks-gcp-installer-provisioned.html

The value must be the contents of the certificate file that you used for your mirror registry. The certificate file can be an existing, trusted certificate authority, or the self-signed certificate that you generated for the mirror registry.

> If you are using the optional method of the ZTP manifests, there are two mirror configuration files: `registries.conf` and `ca- bundle.crt` . These files must be added to the `mirror/ directory` path to add the mirror configuration in the agent ISO image.

Reviewer 3: I don't think there needs to be a space after `mirror` but ignore if I'm wrong here
```suggestion
If you are using the optional method of the ZTP manifests, there are two mirror configuration files: `registries.conf` and `ca- bundle.crt` . These files must be included in the `mirror/directory` path to add the mirror configuration in the agent ISO image.
```

Author: You are right Kelly , thanks .

> You can create the `registries.conf` file from the output of either the `oc adm release mirror` or `oc mirror` command. The format of the `/etc/containers/registries.conf` file has changed recently. It is now version 2 and in TOML format.

Reviewer 4: I think that _recently_ will get stale. Was version 2 introduced in OpenShift 4.12? Will old registries.conf files that use the version 1 format and YAML still work?

Author: @bfournie could you please help confirm the version? Thanks

Author: Confirmed that it is version 2  with @bfournie.  In 4.11 also version 2 is used  ref https://docs.openshift.com/container-platform/4.11/openshift_images/image-configuration.html

Author: Additional ref >> https://github.com/containers/image/blob/main/docs/containers-registries.conf.5.md#version-1-format---deprecated

Reviewer 2: Version 1 has been deprecated, it is still supported but it does not support using registry mirrors so that version won't be useful for this support, see https://github.com/containers/image/blob/main/docs/containers-registries.conf.5.md#version-1-format---deprecated

Author: I agree with removing the word recently.

> .Example of a `registries.conf` file

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
.Example `registries.conf` file
```

> [source,yaml]

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
[source,toml]
```
It looks like Rouge supports TOML formatting: https://rouge-ruby.github.io/docs/Rouge/Lexers/TOML.html

Author: This is nice , implemented.
